### Containerization with Docker

```
git clone https://github.com/badtuxx/giropops-senhas
cd giropops-senhas/

echo "FROM cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest-dev AS builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN pip install --user --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

FROM cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest
WORKDIR /app
COPY --from=builder /home/nonroot/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages /home/nonroot/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages
COPY --from=builder /home/nonroot/.local/bin/flask /home/nonroot/.local/bin/flask
COPY . .

ENV PATH=\"/home/nonroot/.local/bin:\$PATH\"
ENTRYPOINT [\"flask\", \"run\", \"--host=0.0.0.0\"]" >> Dockerfile

docker image build -t giropops-senhas .
docker push den7ee/giropops-senhas
```

#### Explanation

`git clone https://github.com/badtuxx/giropops-senhas` This command is used to create a local copy (or "clone") of a remote Git repository.

`cd giropops-senhas/` This command you move into the giropops-senhas directory, where you can now access the files and work with the repository.

The command echo "FROM ..." >> Dockerfile appends all contente between "quotes" to a file named Dockerfile. If the file doesn't already exist, it will be created.

The containerization process consists of creating a file called “Dockerfile” to create a Docker image. The Dockerfile starts with the ```FROM``` section, there we define what our base image is, which in this project will be a Chainguard Python image, this image was adopted because Chainguard is a company known for secure and minimal container images.
`
FROM cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest-dev AS builder
`
The `AS builder` part means this is a construction step.

When the container starts, what will be the default directory? We answer this question using `WORKDIR` which in this case is `/app`

Now we have a base image and the default directory, but its empty. To solve this, we will `COPY` everything from app directory called `/giropops-senhas` (The current directory), to our `WORKDIR` directory called `/app`, for do this we will use "COPY period space period": `COPY . .` Its means, copy everything from the current directory "/giropops-senhas" to directory defined in `WORKDIR` "/app".

Now that we have our directory with the necessary files, let's run the command that installs the application requirements: `RUN pip install --user --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt`.

`pip install` Is a package installer for Python, to install Python packages

`-- user` This option tells pip to install the packages in the user-level directory instead of the system-wide directory. This is useful when you don't have permission to install packages globally or want to avoid modifying the system Python environment.

`--no-cache-dir` This option prevents pip from saving the downloaded packages in its cache. This reduces the size of the Docker image since the cache isn't stored, which is particularly useful in a containerized environment where minimizing image size is important.

`-r requirements.txt` This option tells pip to install all the packages listed in the requirements.txt file. The requirements.txt file is a standard way of specifying a list of Python packages along with their versions.

`FROM` This Dockerfile instruction sets the base image for the Docker image you are building.

`cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest` This specifies the base image.

`WORKDIR /app` This sets the working directory for any subsequent commands in the Dockerfile. If the directory doesn’t exist, it will be created. All relative paths in following commands will be relative to `/app`.

`COPY --from=builder`: This is a multi-stage build instruction. It copies files from a previous build stage named builder. However, the builder stage itself is not shown in the provided code, but you can assume that it was defined earlier in the Dockerfile or in an external build process.

`/home/nonroot/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages` This is the source directory from the builder stage, where Python packages are typically installed for a non-root user.

`/home/nonroot/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages` This is the target directory in the current build stage where the copied Python packages will be placed.

`COPY --from=builder` Again, this copies files from the builder stage.

`/home/nonroot/.local/bin/flask` This is the source path for the flask executable in the builder stage.

`/home/nonroot/.local/bin/flask` This is the target path where the flask executable will be placed in the current build stage. This ensures that the flask command is available in the final image.

`COPY . .` This copies all files from the current directory on the host machine (where the Docker build command is run) to the current working directory inside the container (/app in this case). This usually includes the application code.

`ENV PATH="/home/nonroot/.local/bin:$PATH"` This sets an environment variable inside the container. It prepends /home/nonroot/.local/bin to the PATH environment variable. This ensures that any executables in /home/nonroot/.local/bin, including flask, can be run directly from the command line without specifying the full path.

`ENTRYPOINT ["flask", "run", "--host=0.0.0.0"]` This specifies the command that will run when a container created from this image starts. Here, it runs the Flask web server (flask run) and binds it to all available IP addresses in the container (--host=0.0.0.0), making the web server accessible from outside the container.

`docker image build` This command builds a Docker image from a Dockerfile located in the current directory or a specified path.

`-t giropops-senhas` The -t flag is used to tag the image with a name. In this case, the image is being tagged as giropops-senhas. Tagging is useful for identifying and versioning images.

`docker push` This command uploads a Docker image to a Docker registry, such as Docker Hub, where it can be shared and pulled by others.

`den7ee/giropops-senhas` This is the name of the image as it will appear in the Docker registry. den7ee is the Docker Hub username or organization name, and giropops-senhas is the image name.
